This archive contains all that has currently been found of XMGEM 
There is source code for the main parts i.e. GEMVDI, GEM, DESKTOP,
but there are no linker list files:- .INP files, although the batch files are here.
There appear to be some parts of the binaries missing and to run it properly you
would need a utility to set up a ramdisk in expanded memory. [Please upload if anybody has one which can be added to the archive].
If you get it running the Desktop reports itself as 3.13 the last published invocation, However the directory structure is strictly GEM 1, and you will need drivers from GEM 2, because of the missing bits you will have to load it by hand
and use the keypad to move the mouse, (seven [pos ] is equivallent of mouse click)
The GEM base files are larger than their equivallent from the released versions of GEM.
Tools used in the build include Lattice 2,14; Rasm86; Metaware HC 1.4; Link86 and RASM -(no suffix).
Source code via courtesy of Gene Buckle
Binaries via courtesy of Dylan Harris
Picture and description below via courtesy of Alec Beanse
Enjoy
Chris Barnes

From Alec

"A while back another GEM user gave me a poor photocopy from a magazine or
DR leaflet concerning GEM XM Desktop & Diary that was shortly to be
released (1987). A copy of the text follows:

GEM XM Desktop and Diary

GEM XM Desktop allows you to run several applications at once. You
can switch at will between them and even pass data from application
to application. No longer need you finish one job before starting
another.
No more errors in typing the output of one programme as input to the
next.
Even for DOS applications that were not specially written for GEM.

These new capabilities are in addition to the easy-to-use GEM Desktop
functions of organising and displaying the contents of your discs.
All commands use drop-down menus so need no memorizing. Discs and files
are represented by icons which are unambiguous and easy to select,
especially with a mouse.

GEM XM Desktop is delivered complete with the indispensable GEM Diary
which has alarm clock, calendar, diary and card index functions
constantly available.

Major features include:

* Load up to ten applications simultaneously
* Switch between applications at any time in any order
* Cut and paste data between applications
* Use RAM disc or expanded memory (if available)
* Alarm clock, calendar, diary card index and calculator accessories

GEM XM Desktop system requirements:

* IBM PC or 100% compatible
* 512k RAM - some features require more
* Expanded memory, used as RAM disk, for even higher performance
* Hard Disc
* CGA, EGA or Hercules graphics or compatible
* Logimouse, Mouse Systems or Microsoft mouse or compatible or
  Summagraphics tablet (optional but highly recommended)

NB: GEM XM available Q2 1987

Has anyone heard of this or was it just wishful thinking on DRs part?

"